Enough about implicit and explicit grid, you learned how you can control the add new row or column behavior.
Sometimes you want to have a layout where the child elements are put into cells in a row until they
reach the edge of the current viewport at which point they should jump into a new row and do the same
again.
Now here we don't have that behavior, if we shrink it, we reach a point where nothing happens, we just
crop the content,
we never have our content jump into a new line
and on the other hand if we increase the width, it also doesn't populate these newly freed-up space up
here,
it always stays the way it is.
Now we can change this by dynamically generating columns.
You could think that grid auto flow column would be the solution but it actually isn't
because this will always put new content into a column,
it doesn't check if the column still fits into the current viewport or not.
However, we can create columns on our own here,
the downside is that we need to know how many columns we need and we don't know.
Now we could try figuring this out with a couple of media queries and then simply overwrite this property
and change the amount of columns we create
but there is a convenient helper value we can enter, auto-fill.
Now let me reduce the size to maybe 10rem and what auto-fill will do is it will ensure that it fills
the current row with as many items as possible and then it will wrap and enter a new row basically.
So if I save this and reload, you can see the effect here,
we've got four items in the first row now,
if I increase the viewport, this become five
and if I shrink it, well then they jump into new lines.
Of course this is only possible to a certain extent but this gives us a lot of flexibility already.
So this can be really useful to create a truly dynamic grid for cases where you want to have multiple
items sit next to each other.
Now if you want to restrict the maximum amount of items that are in a row, you can simply assign a max
width to your container which holds the grid in the end.
There also is an alternative to auto-fill and you can only see it if you've got less items,
so let me temporarily comment out the last three quotes so that we only have three quotes for now.
Now you see, the items are obviously not enough to fill the entire line because or the entire row because
we only have three items
but now we can use an alternative value, so not auto-fill but auto-fit. Auto-fit will behave almost
equal to auto-fill
but if I reload with auto-fit, you see it also centers this automatically, it will still however put
this into a new line if the space is not enough.
So auto-fit is a nice alternative to auto-fill for cases where you might end up with a layout where
you don't have enough items for an entire row.
So auto-fit and auto-fill are two great values you can use to make sure that your content is really using
the available space in the best possible way.
So now I'm going to comment in the other quotes here again and with that, we're back to the last behavior
we saw with auto-fill.